well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about how
to raise your kids not really i'm not
really going to tell you how to raise
your kids
but i've had a number of questions
related to one thing in particular
when it comes to kids and instilling
values and it's basically
how do i discuss philosophy and politics
with my children
and not create little ideological foot
soldiers
okay first let me just stop here if this
is
even remotely a concern of yours you're
not going to do it
um you'll discuss things in a way
that allows them to develop their own
values
if you're even if this has even crossed
your mind
you're not gonna do it but there are
some techniques
that can be used to help people
determine their own values
and these are actually you're familiar
with them because i use them on this
channel
if you're talking to your kids about
philosophy and politics
you're treating them as an adult if
you're wanting to
them to develop their own values you're
treating them as an adult
so you can use the same techniques that
are used with adults
the first is uh discuss
ideas and policy not people
and parties or rigid ideological
structures
name a politician i endorse you can't
name policies i endorse you name a whole
bunch
it's how it works if you remove the
person
from the equation and you're just
talking about the policies
they can't look to that person that they
agreed with once
and use that to shape their other
opinions
so if you see somebody starting to get a
hero
somebody that they're going to use to
shape their own beliefs
you have to humanize them
nobody is perfect heroes were people
people are fallible they make mistakes
they're not right on
everything so when you see your child
start to let's say look up to
fdr a whole lot
maybe it's time to break out a book
about what happened to the japanese in
the u.s during world war
ii teach them history
not mythology don't let them have heroes
that they view as infallible okay it's
okay to have heroes
but make sure you understand their
mistakes their errors
if you do this you remove the cult of
personality
that comes with historical figures
because if they fall into that
they'll ignore all of the negative stuff
we see this today
with a lot of trump supporters they will
ignore
everything negative that he does because
they don't support a policy
or an idea they support
a person and maybe an emotional
attachment we'll get to that in a minute
okay doing that will help them determine
their own
values then you have to
kind of demonstrate how to classify
their values because
not all values are the same
morality is not the same as legality
we've said it a hundred times on this
channel right
there's also ethical which is in the
middle so you have moral ethical and
legal
legal is what's permissible it's the
bare minimum
this is what you have to do to avoid
direct negative repercussions from the
state okay
that's the bare minimum standard
ethical is society at large
what society at large wants you to do
what best practices are as determined by
society
and that is designed to benefit society
as a whole
moral those are your own
and theoretically those
at least i believe should be more
strenuous
than just about anything else those
should be the most guiding
my belief on that those are the ones
that
you determine for yourself now an
example that gets thrown out
sometimes is not my baby not my fountain
okay it's kind of common not as common
as it used to be because
the premise is you're at a park and
there's a baby in a fountain it's not
your baby it's not your fountain
do you have an obligation to stop that
child from getting hurt
okay legally now let me stop
here because there's the traditional way
of explaining this argument and then
there's the reality of today if you were
in the u.s
understand that in most jurisdictions
you kind of have a legal responsibility
to remove the child from the fountain
but at the time this argument was made
initially
you didn't not in the u.s anyway
because you have no obligation because
it's not your baby it's not your
fountain
legally you can just sit there and watch
ethically would you do that would
society want you to do that no of course
not
of course not because what is best for
society
is that people work to defend
the innocent protect innocent lives
moral why do you get the baby out the
fountain
because not doing so is evil
these three things aren't the same legal
ethical and moral
i've seen grown men try to refute moral
arguments with legal ones don't let your
kid
fall into that because if you're worried
about creating little ideological
foot soldiers you also don't want them
to just be the government's
allow the government to determine what
is best
the government is a child of the people
the people are not children of the
government
so you you don't want them to take their
morals
from the law you want them to go beyond
that
they don't need to be told what to do in
every instance
let's take it out of the theoretical and
into the tangible it's the 1850s
slavery it's legal in the southern us
right okay ethically
in the south it's ethical
in the south in the 1850s it was ethical
that was how society viewed what was
best
okay in the north it wasn't
what if you lived in the south
and harriet tubman was one of your
friends you let her come over to your
house
you were operating from a moral base you
were going above and beyond
the ethical and the legal if you lived
in the north
there was no law and no ethical
restriction
on you taking a slaver's profits and
using that to invest in the north
but morally you may decide to do that
you may say no it's a hideous blot it
has to be undone i want nothing to do
with this
that's moral now
this will help them classify their
values that they develop on their
own beyond that don't sensationalize
um now with an example like slavery it's
kind of hard not to sensationalize i
mean it's
it's objectively a horrible thing
so it's hard to kind of not do that with
that particular topic
but explain the realities of it you
don't have to become very emotional
and say look at how horrible this was
objectively it's horrible there there's
no reason to bring
emotion into it on that level when
you're talking about today
now that's a really bad example because
it's it is an emotional topic but there
are other topics that you would want to
avoid that with
with something like slavery or a lot of
the
other more horrible events throughout
history emotion is going to come into it
but you want to limit it
i know that doesn't make sense but you
want to keep it to a minimum
because you want people to develop their
ideas
based on the moral ethical and legal
not an emotional reaction
at the same time
don't uh don't let anger come into it
when you are talking about historical
figures
people in general don't let anger come
into it
this person was horrible in every regard
because they probably weren't just like
the heroes
the villains of history also probably
did something right
at some point we don't necessarily know
what it is but
it's probably true so you don't want to
personalize
it in either way you want to talk about
ideas
policies not people so don't let anger
get the best of you
and don't downplay it you know right now
there's a whole bunch of people saying
slavery
was a necessary evil and they're saying
this to refute the
1619 project which oddly enough is
the argument of the 1619 project that's
a really bad argument if you're making
that and saying slavery isn't necessary
evil therefore we shouldn't teach the
1619 project
you you're failing on many many levels
um but you don't want to downplay it
either
you don't want to say oh this was
necessary at the time because it was it
was it really um or
say it's just the way it was because
the legal standard of the day and the
ethical standard of the day yeah those
are fixed
can't change those the moral standard of
today
looking back can be applied
retroactively
not because it's going to change the
outcome
but because it helps the person
determining their values
understand that
their views their morals will be
viewed through the scope of history
written 100 years from now
the decisions they make
will shape the future because morals are
what shapes
ethics and ethics are what shapes the
law
so if you're one of those people who
uses the law to determine your morals
you're doing it backwards
you're doing the very bare minimum
this is why you will find phrases like
law and order
resonating with conservatives
because conservatives like tradition
the legal is the last to be impacted by
new ideas
which is funny because conservatives
also like to
paint themselves as most moral which is
anyway so at the end of the day
if you're the least bit concerned about
this you don't want to create little
ideological foot soldiers
you choose to discuss policy and ideas
instead of
people and parties and rigid ideological
structures you don't
allow them to have infallible heroes
and you teach them how to categorize
their values moral
ethical legal you do that
they will develop their values on their
own they won't be little ideological
foot soldiers
but i would also warn you that it may
seem
like they are
they're following in your ideological
footsteps
because for many people this
if you're being objective about it
it's going to shape your values and
it'll end up being
the same values there's a reason why
most people on this channel agree on a
lot of stuff
it's because this is how the arguments
get made
this is how this is how the sausage is
made here
um so we framed
things typically on the moral side
because that to me is the most important
some people would suggest that ethics
are some people who are definitely wrong
would suggest that the legal is
but this is this is a good technique to
get people to
think for themselves and this can be
used also to help deprogram
trump supporters when the time comes
never mention trump talk about policy
and ideas talk about moral ethical and
legal
don't talk about him
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day